[Educational Notes] Start adding educational notes for data-race safety. (#79509)
swiftlang/swift: userdocs/diagnostics/actor-isolated-call.md

# Calling an actor-isolated method from a synchronous nonisolated context

Calls to actor-isolated methods from outside the actor must be done asynchronously. Otherwise, access to actor state can happen concurrently and lead to data races. These rules also apply to global actors like the main actor.

For example:

```swift
@MainActor
class MyModel {
  func update() { ... }
}

func runUpdate(model: MyModel) {
  mode.update()
}
```

> Building the above code produces an error about calling a `@MainActor`-isolated method from outside the actor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building the above code produces an error about calling a method isolated to the main actor from outside the actor:
```

Author: I'm inclined to change all occurrences of "`@MainActor`-isolated" in prose to "main actor isolated". Thoughts?

Reviewer: Very much in favor. It removes the jargon feel while keeping the concrete relevant detail in place. Using the representation (or type) in the name can be useful in some situations, but I don't think there's variation enough to warrant the using the `@MainActor` declaration as part of word in these cases.

Reviewer: (Keeping the declaration mixed in also makes it harder to translate down the road, for what that's worth)

```
| func runUpdate(model: MyModel) {
|   model.update()
|         `- error: call to main actor-isolated instance method 'update()' in a synchronous nonisolated context
| }
```

> The `runUpdate` function doesn't specify any actor isolation, so the default is `nonisolated`, meaning it can be called from anywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `runUpdate` function doesn't specify any actor isolation, so the default is `nonisolated`, which implies to the compiler that it can be called from anywhere.
```

Author: I feel like language like "implies to the compiler" makes it sound too much like we just need to appease the compiler. I'd rather elaborate more on what `nonisolated` means semantically and how data races are prevented - `runUpdate` can be called from any concurrency domain, and for that to be safe from data races, the implementation must not access any actor isolated state.

> To resolve the error, `runUpdate` has to make sure the call to `model.update()` is on the main actor. One way to do that is to propagate the main actor isolation to `runUpdate` itself:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve the error, `runUpdate` has to make sure the call to `model.update()` is on the main actor. One way to do that is to add main actor isolation to the `runUpdate` function:
```

```swift
@MainActor
func runUpdate(model: MyModel) {
  mode.update()
}
```

> Alternatively, if `runUpdate` truly can be called from arbitrary concurrent contexts, the implementation can kick off a new main actor task to switch back to the main actor before calling `model.update()`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, if the `runUpdate` method is meant to be called from arbitrary concurrent contexts, use a start a task  isolated to the main actor before calling `model.update()`:
```
